hello it's Ruby and today I'm going to
be talking to you about distractions
which I've got to admit is something
that I have struggled with in the past
when it comes to studying when it comes
to sitting down and getting on with some
work something that you need to get done
but there are a few things which I have
learnt over the years a few ways that
I've trained myself to eliminate the
impact of distraction I'm basically
going to be sharing with you what's
worked for me this might not necessarily
work for everyone but hopefully you
might find this useful and hopefully
some of these tips will help you to get
less distracted because ultimately when
we give way to distractions
that's when we procrastinate that's when
we're less productive that's all my less
focused so avoiding distractions is so
so important
and during sick form when I was doing
really long study sessions this is
something which I really relied on to
help me keep my focus help me keep
working productively somehow throughout
the whole the whole stunt yeah so I've
just got a few quick tips which I'm
gonna share with you and I hope you find
it useful now the first thing is
basically a way that I train myself to
avoid distraction in examinations
because this is the very worst time to
be distracted I have I have had cases
where I've been sitting in an example
especially at GCSE and I would basically
just find it really hard to concentrate
I would be thinking about the
invigilator x' who were walking up and
down sometimes they'd read over your
shoulder or something and that would
really put me off it really distract me
and I couldn't focus entirely on the
work and also really tiny noises I
remember this one exam when I think it
was internal but um one of the
invigilator had a watch on and when they
were typing the watch was making this
really strange scratching noise on the
computer and it was really really tiny I
don't think many people noticed it but I
couldn't concentrate because of it and
also walking up and down other people
writing other people typing I found that
really really hard to concentrate within
especially at the beginning of an exam
when you really need to get into the
mindset so the way that I train myself
to avoid the impact of this was by
practicing studying with these
background noises I think that called
ASMR
but there are a few of these which have
sounds like other people writing people
walking up and down there's even an exam
one which I found if you play this when
you're studying as opposed to having
silence having rain noise having music
and then you basically have to train
yourself to get used to that noise and
it won't feel so abnormal when you're
actually there and you won't get
distracted by it so that is a top tip
which works so well for me the second
way that I don't get distracted by
distractions is by having a signature
scent which my study to my mom actually
is an aromatherapist and so she mixes
together oils and one of them she made
for me is she calls it Ruby's a revision
remedy and this is basically some oils
blended together which I'll put on my
wrists before I study basically I
associate this now with really good
quality revision I'm really unfocused so
when I smell that I'm instantly in this
mindset where I am focused our memories
are largely drawn to scent it's one of
the greatest ways that we can remember
something not only is it going to help
you to recall the information but I also
find that it helps to get me into a
certain mindset now the third thing is
very simple but very very important
which is to turn off the phone and put
it in a different room ideally with the
sound off there are times there are the
months where I have just found myself
getting more distracted by my phone
getting more distracted by social media
and during these months I do have to
just put my phone out of my room
it takes a lot more effort then to
actually stand up go out go find it then
check something and so I mean it's so
much easier when your phone's literally
right here and you can you can just take
a few minutes it's gonna just wrap your
burgers it's gonna disrupt your sense of
flow the fourth tip which I have which
is again more to do with training
yourself is to make a note of things
that distract you so if you find
yourself getting distracted by something
just kind of make a note of maybe what
you were working on make a note of what
distracted you as well so for example
one thing which I noticed I would always
get distracted by was if my room was
messy so if there was just a single top
or jumper on my bed or if the bed was
kind of like slightly crumpled or if if
I'd loads of stuff out as opposed to
having a clean surface I would find
myself anymore
directed and so I basically just had to
incorporate tidying my room before and
into my study routine and then that
helps me to stop feeling distracted and
start to focus instead the fifth thing
is again quite simple but again very
effective which is to keep goals at hand
to look at if you need to I don't know
if I've ever actually done this I
definitely thought about doing it I'm
pretty sure I've done this before but I
might not have done basically writing
out a goals list which I have got and
and then keeping that pinned up to your
wall and then that's kind of like a
distraction but it's a good distraction
I know that this doesn't work for
everyone but I would I would personally
recommend making sure that there's a
specific space in your room or in your
house where you would work because then
you're less likely to get distracted
when you're there especially if
everything in that zone is to do with
work it's to do with studying so my desk
obviously is my prime study place this
is where I study and so when I sit down
here I don't really have anything here
which is going to distract me from that
because all I've got things like pens
and looks like pencils and leading on
from that having a nice workspace I
really think it's worth either investing
in in a few little bits to make your
desk more homely more friendly home so
for example maybe a plants I didn't
actually have a plan to my desk but now
I'm thinking about it'd be really nice
to have a plan so my dad I say a plant
because so this is the view from my desk
and I am so so lucky to have this for
you and I work but having this view
means that I enjoy working and I enjoy
sitting down to study and it's and I
don't really get distracted so much I'm
more focused because I kind of I enjoy
being in the space that I'm in I think
it's really important to have a study
space which you don't enjoy genuinely
being in so making sure it's a really
light space if you hunt if you're not
lucky enough to have it a square nest
your window having like a bright lamp um
you know kind of white light as opposed
to yellow lights handles I actually
filmed a video on my channel which is my
preparing to study routine which
includes some of the things I might do
before a study session and that's very
much centered around partially a static
in my mind it is linked towards being in
a more more productive state of mind and
I find it easier to get into a state of
flow when I'm in this kind of
environment and
very last thing which I recommend is
making a timetable which is something I
really swear by when I'm doing studying
so one thing which I have mentioned
before is that I like to flick between
things and that's it's already quite a
very task and that's it's maybe
research-based where you're looking at
multiple different things and it's very
go-go-go and your mind can stay very
active and it's not going to get bored
by anything I like to flip between tasks
I like to keep my brain awake engaged
enjoying it not really and not getting
bored by something because that's the
very worst thing that can happen and
that's when you start to get distracted
oh yes I one of my tips very very quick
but I hope that some of these are
helpful and for everyone who is getting
ready to prepare for either gtcys is
levels a levels or final exams and of
your exams wherever wherever you are I
really hope that you're studying as well
make sure to look after yourself this
exam season make sure to give yourself
give your give your mind and your body
the breaks and the time that it needs to
be Hugh Bray only you know how much time
you need for that be sensible but also
be kind to yourself it's so so important
to be kind to yourself yeah so good luck
to everyone who's working hard and I
hope that you have a productive week